In recent years, the annual meeting has been an occasion where clarified understanding of Bible truths a new light has been announced and explained.
Of course, it's not at every annual meeting that this takes place, but when Jehovah makes something known, often it's at the annual meeting where it is announced.
Will there be new light today? I think Brother Cook already spilled the beans a bit, but we look forward to see what is in store for our program.
But how do you ever wonder, though, how exactly does Jehovah reveal clarified understanding of the Scripture's new light in modern times?
When the governing body is meeting together, as the faithful and discreet slave, how does it work? How exactly does the light get brighter?
How does Jehovah use that arrangement to clarify our understanding?
Well, first of all, what do we know from the Scriptures? Let's look at four points.
The first one is this, by what means does Jehovah reveal new light?
Well, for that we can turn to 1 Corinthians 2 and read together 1 Corinthians 2 verse 10.
For it is to us, God has revealed them through His Spirit, for the Spirit searches into all things, even the deep things of God.
So clearly, by what means does Jehovah reveal new light? It's by His Spirit. We recognize the key role that Jehovah's Spirit has in revealing the truth.
0.2, to whom does Jehovah reveal clarified understanding?
Well, for that we can turn to the book of Matthew, chapter 24, and read together Matthew 24 verse 45,
who really is the faithful and discreet slave whom His master appointed over His domestics to give them their food at the proper time?
So clearly, Christ has appointed the faithful and discreet slave, and it is through this channel that Jehovah through Christ works to provide spiritual food.
So just with those two first points, it's very clear to us how spiritual truth, new understanding, is communicated from heaven to earth by means of the Holy Spirit through the channel of the faithful and discreet slave.
Question number three, when does Jehovah reveal new light?
Well, we just have to look back to verse 45, Matthew 24, the slave will provide the food at the proper time. There's a clear timing element indicated there isn't there.
And so, Jehovah reveals clarified understanding at His time when it is needed and when it will help us to carry out His will.
Number four, at what rate does He reveal new light? Is it all at once like a dump truck or is it metered out like a trickle?
Well, the answer to that is found in the book of Proverbs, chapter 4, in verse 18.
Proverbs 4, 18, with the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.
So the Bible here uses the illustration of daylight and what does that teach us?
Well, the watchtower said, these words aptly apply to the way in which Jehovah reveals His purpose to His people gradually.
So just as daylight grows brighter and brighter gradually, a proper understanding of Bible truths comes gradually as we need it and as we are able to absorb it and use it.
And we appreciate that, don't we? It's easier on our eyes when literal light gets brighter gradually and so it is with understanding of Jehovah's purpose as well.
For example, think about Abraham. Could Abraham have handled and absorbed a complete understanding of Jehovah's will at His time?
How he would use the 12 tribes of Israel, the Mosaic law, the understanding of Christ and the payment of the ransom, and the first century Christian congregation, the heavenly hope, the last days, details about the great tribulation?
No way, he couldn't handle all of that. He didn't need it. But Abraham had what he needed to serve Jehovah acceptably during the time that he lived.
Well, we have the privilege to live during the last days where true knowledge was foretold to become abundant.
But even still, it is released and made known at a pace that we can absorb, that we can handle, and that we can use, and we thank Jehovah for that.
So this is what we know from the scriptures and from our own experience as well about how the light gets brighter in modern times.
It comes about by means of the Holy Spirit through his channel of the faithful and discreet slave. He reveals it gradually and at a time that it is needed.
Well, knowing this, then we are not embarrassed about adjustments that are made nor do is an apology needed for not getting it exactly right previously.
We understand this is how Jehovah operates. He reveals matters gradually when it is needed.
And also, the governing body is neither inspired nor infallible. And so it can air in doctrinal matters or in organizational direction.
The brothers do the best they can with what they have and what they understand at the time, but are happy if Jehovah sees fit to clarify matters.
And then that can be shared with the brotherhood. And when that happens, we understand this because it is Jehovah's time for that to happen, and we eagerly accept that.
But now back to our original question, okay, we understand these things from the scriptures, but really how does it work?
When the brothers are meeting together, how does Jehovah help them come to a better understanding of things?
Well, that is an appropriate question because Jehovah does not intend for it to be a mystery or overly secretive.
In fact, in his inspired scriptures, he reveals examples of when understanding was clarified in the Christian era.
And a notable example is around 49 CE when clarification was needed regarding the requirements for salvation. And specifically, the question was, would Gentile males first need to be circumcised and submit to the mosaic law in order to be saved?
This was a significant matter that could have divided the congregation, and so it was referred to the apostles and the older men, the governing body at that time.
And in fact, at Galatians 2.2, Paul states that as a result of a revelation, he brought the matter to the brothers in Jerusalem.
So Christ himself directed that this important doctrinal matter be settled by the brothers taking the lead.
And in Acts 15, Jehovah allows us to look in on that meeting, to be a fly on the wall as it were, to hear their discussion, to see how the Holy Spirit worked with them,
how they used God's word, how they came to a conclusion, and then the result that was sent and conveyed to the congregations.
And the process is not entirely different today.
So let's take a look at what happened. If we turn together to Acts chapter 15, in beginning in verse 6, it says, the apostles and the elders gather together to look into this matter.
So this is an important matter. It's brought before the governing body of that day.
And then in verse 7, it mentions that there is much intense discussion.
So a lively conversation, the brothers felt free to express themselves respectfully, but they were sharing their thoughts and opinions about the different sides of the issue.
And in verse 7, Peter stands. And maybe this is the point that is reflected in our artwork here.
And Peter begins to speak and relates his comments based on his real life experience with Cornelius.
So they're considering some facts.
And if you look at verse 12, Peter's words strike a chord because the entire group becomes silent.
And in this we see humility, don't we?
Because none of the brothers were trying to force their personal opinion or get their idea approved.
They were collectively looking to Jehovah for direction on the matter.
Well, this makes way, then, for Paul and Barnabas to begin to explain their experiences, so more facts, more evidence that they could consider.
And then in verse 13, James speaks up.
And he uses the scriptures to help the brothers draw a proper scriptural conclusion.
He applies Amos 9-11 and 12 saying that Jehovah would turn his attention to the nations to take out of them a people for his name.
So verses 19 through 21, he recommends a decision.
Verse 25 indicates that that decision was unanimous.
And then in verse 22, it mentions that they send the brothers out to inform the congregation of this clarified understanding.
So the whole process described there, we see the use of God's word, we see the leadership of the Christ, the operation of the Holy Spirit,
working through the brothers, taking the lead at that time.
And so we can see it's the process is not intended to be a mystery or to be overly secretive.
And the process today is not much dissimilar than that.
In 2010, the wash tower explained it this way.
It said, when the time comes to clarify a spiritual matter in our day,
Holy Spirit helps the faithful and discreet slave to discern deep truths that were not previously understood.
The governing body as a whole considers adjusted explanations.
What they learn, they publish for the benefit of all end quote.
So generally, the process happens this way.
First of all, a question comes up.
And so it could be that a governing body member in his personal study or his personal Bible reading notices something that then raises the question.
Or it could be that a question comes up during the preparation or translation of spiritual food that requires more consideration.
World events might put the spotlight on a particular prophecy that then gets closer attention.
So in one way or another, a question comes up.
And that question is then put on the governing body's agenda for discussion.
And the question is, does this require or warrant additional research?
The brothers are not making a final decision on what the new understanding will be just asking, does it warrant additional research?
And if the answer is yes, then a research team is assigned to provide recommendations and research for the governing body to consider.
And this research includes a summary of everything that we have said, the organization has said on the subject since 1879.
All the watchtowers, what have we said?
Also, it includes what the context of the verse indicates about its meaning, meaning.
Or what bearing do parallel accounts have on the understanding of the account, if there are any parallel accounts?
And finally, what impact does the original Hebrew or Greek have on our understanding of the verse?
Well, once that whole research package is compiled, it's placed back on the governing body's agenda for review.
And of course, once it goes on the agenda, then each individual member of the governing body, under prayer, reviews the information and thinks about it in preparation for the meeting.
And then is discussed as a group at the governing body meeting, again, under prayer, relying on Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
And when this matter has discussed, the discussion is not rushed, nor is the decision forced.
But often, like in the first century, it's a lively discussion as the brothers feel free to share their opinions and their thoughts, the results of their meditation and their research.
But there's also humility there.
Because again, none of the brothers are trying to force their idea or try to get their thoughts approved, but there is this collective unified desire to see Jehovah's direction on the matter.
And where is he steering things?
The goal is to discern Jehovah's direction on the matter.
And often, or at times, we could say, the final result might be quite different than what the research package originally recommended.
But that's Jehovah's Spirit working through the faithful and discrete slave to bring us to the right decision.
And the brothers are looking for a unanimous decision.
The times it may seem like this is a solid adjustment, but if it's not unanimous, it just might not be time yet for it to be revealed.
So it's not forced, the matter is set aside.
And it could be that sometime later, even some years later, the matter comes back up and then it sails right through.
Or maybe it does get approved, but now with a couple of key points discern that weren't discerned earlier.
If this thorough process, under prayer, and when there is unanimous accord, then the brothers take that as Jehovah's direction and then are happy to share it with the brotherhood.
So this helps us to understand the process, understand how light gets brighter in modern times.
While it is interesting to us, how are understanding is clarified?
What really touches our heart is why it's clarified.
Turn with me, please, to the book of Amos, chapter 3.
And notice what Amos 3 7 says.
For the sovereign Lord Jehovah will not do a thing unless he has revealed his confidential matter to his servants, the prophets.
Doesn't that convey Jehovah's confidence in us?
Doesn't it indicate his love, his loyalty?
Jehovah is actively involved in teaching his people, preparing us for what lies ahead.
He's providing us with the understanding that we need when we need it.
And that is reassuring, isn't it?
Because as we progress deeper into the time of the end, as Satan's hatred intensifies and his attacks increase.
As we draw closer to the great tribulation and the destruction of Satan's wicked system of things, we can be confident that Jehovah God, our God, will continue to loyally provide us with the direction and the understanding that we need.
We will not be left without guidance, unsure where to go or what to do.
We will not be left to stumble in the dark because Jehovah has said,
the path of the righteous one is light, the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.